xk6-sql `v1.0.3` is here 🎉!

This release includes:

## New features

- [Connection options in the open function](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-sql/issues/122): An optional options parameter can be used in `open()` to specify database connection-related options.

    ```js
    sql.open(driver, "roster_db", opts)
    ```

    Properties:
    - `conn_max_idle_time`:  Sets the maximum amount of time a connection may be idle. If 0, connections are not closed due to a connection's idle time. A duration string is a possibly signed sequence of decimal numbers, each with optional fraction and a unit suffix, such as "300ms", "-1.5h" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "ns", "us" (or "µs"), "ms", "s", "m", "h". Example:
        ```js
        const db = sql.open(driver, "roster_db", { conn_max_idle_time: "1h10m10s" });
        ```
    - `conn_max_lifetime`: Sets the maximum amount of time a connection may be reused. If 0, connections are not closed due to a connection's age. A duration string is a possibly signed sequence of decimal numbers, each with optional fraction and a unit suffix, such as "300ms", "-1.5h" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "ns", "us" (or "µs"), "ms", "s", "m", "h". Example:
        ```js
        const db = sql.open(driver, "roster_db", { conn_max_lifetime: "10h" });
        ```
    - `max_idle_conns`: Sets the maximum number of connections in the idle connection pool. If 0, no idle connections are retained. The default is currently 2. Example:
        ```js
        const db = sql.open(driver, "roster_db", { max_idle_conns: 3 });
        ```
    - `max_open_conns`: Sets the maximum number of open connections to the database.  If 0, then there is no limit on the number of open connections. The default is 0 (unlimited). Example:
        ```js
        const db = sql.open(driver, "roster_db", { max_open_conns: 100 });
        ```

## Bugfixes

- [Symbol type driver parameter support](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-sql/issues/120): The `open()` function now accepts `Symbol` (class) type driver ids in addition to the primitive symbol type. This is because when a driver is imported with the `require()` function, it is not a primitive symbol that is imported, but a `Symbol` class type. Also fixes [#115](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-sql/issues/115)
